README.md, before:

# Space Engineers Developer Skills

A [skill](https://agentskills.io) library for Space Engineers plugin, mod, and in-game script development.

**This library applies only to version 1 of the game.**

## How to use

You must have a "skills" compatible agentic coding environment. 
See [agentskills.io](https://agentskills.io) or [skills.sh](https://skills.sh) for details.

## Installation

`npx skills add viktor-ferenczi/se-dev-skills`

Follow the wizard.

Later you can update them by: `npx skills update`

In case you don't want to use `skills.sh`, then please see the "Manual installation" section below. 

## Preparation

The skills will automatically prepare themselves on **first use**. It means downloading some tools and indexing code.
If you want to prepare them ahead of time, simply run `Prepare.bat` in their respective folders.

**Note:** Preparing the `se-dev-game-code` skill may take 5–15 minutes, as it fully decompiles the game and builds
code indexes to allow for rapid code search later. The fully prepared repository takes about **1.5 GB** of disk space
due to the code index. If you need to save space, you can delete all `*.il` files (approx. **660 MB**), which are
only required for working on transpiler or preloader patches.

All skills install BusyBox (`busybox.exe`) into their folder for use by agentic coding tools for UNIX like commands,
because AI models are bad at Windows commands and often fall back to the UNIX CLI tools even if told otherwise. It
has improved efficiency a lot, therefore this is currently a requirement. 

If you want to use BusyBox in your other projects, then this is also available as a separate skill:
`npx skills add https://github.com/viktor-ferenczi/skills --skill busybox-on-windows`

## Skills

* [se-dev-script](https://www.google.com/search?q=skills/se-dev-script/SKILL.md) – In-game script development
* [se-dev-mod](https://www.google.com/search?q=skills/se-dev-mod/SKILL.md) – Mod development
* [se-dev-plugin](https://www.google.com/search?q=skills/se-dev-plugin/SKILL.md) – Plugin development
* [se-dev-game-code](https://www.google.com/search?q=skills/se-dev-game-code/SKILL.md) – Searchable decompiled C# game code (recommended companion for all the other skills)

_Enjoy!_

## Want to know more?

- [SE Mods Discord](https://discord.gg/PYPFPGf3Ca) FAQ, Troubleshooting, Support, Bug Reports, Discussion
- [Pulsar Discord](https://discord.gg/z8ZczP2YZY) Everything about plugins

---

## Manual installation

1. Clone this repository
2. Move or link the skills into the `skills` folder of your agentic coding environment

Link command: `mklink /J Link Target`
- Link: A new folder in the agentic coding environment's own `skills` folder.
- Target: The existing skill folder in your cloned repository.

## FAQ

### How much of this was "vibe-coded"?

The `index_code.py` and `search_code.py` scripts were written entirely by Claude Code with zero human intervention,
other than repeated prompting and testing. The indexing logic is based on my previous work using Tree-sitter's C#
parser, originally developed for the (now defunct) *Ask Your Code* ChatGPT plugin and GPT.

### How well does this work for plugin development?

I am currently testing it myself. It looks promising, but there may be rough edges. Please try it out and report back or
submit a PR!

### Why do the mod development skills lack details about non-scripting parts?

I haven't developed many mods involving custom art or definitions, so I lack the personal experience to add those yet.
Contributions via PR are very welcome.

### Does Claude Code know about the mod and script API whitelists?

I have exported the current whitelists (as of game version 1.208.015) using [MDK2](https://github.com/malforge/mdk2).
This may need future updates or automation during the preparation phase.

If you use the suggested mod or script template projects and the **ScriptMerge** tool, there is no formal whitelist
validation during build time. It may fail when loading into the game, but if you provide the relevant game logs to
Claude Code, it can usually identify and fix the issue.

### How does Claude Code load this much information into the context?

It doesn't! Skills work on the principle of **"progressive disclosure."** Claude Code initially sees only the top-level
skill names and descriptions. It then gradually "discovers" more information as needed for the task. It has been given
specific instructions on how to search the SE codebase efficiently so it doesn't get overwhelmed.

Ideally, it performs research using sub-agents and clears irrelevant data before passing the results back to the parent
agent. Agent hierarchies are a fascinating and fast-evolving topic, definitely worth looking into!

## Troubleshooting

If you suspect something is not working in these skills, then issue the following test prompt in an empty project:

```md
Check whether you can see these skills:
- `se-dev-script`
- `se-dev-mod`
- `se-dev-plugin`
- `se-dev-game-code`

If you see them, then make sure they're prepared for first use.

Once they are prepared, conduct some smoke testing on their features to make sure they work.

If something is missing or not working properly, then list those for me.
```

## Successful self-test result

All four skills are visible and prepared for first use.

### All Skills Working

| Skill | Status | Key Features Verified |
|-------|--------|----------------------|
| **se-dev-script** | ✅Ready | Preparation complete, ModApiWhitelist.txt available, Python 3.13.2 via uv |
| **se-dev-mod** | ✅Ready | SteamMods symlink working, LocalMods symlink working, Python 3.13.2 via uv |
| **se-dev-plugin** | ✅Ready | All documentation (Plugin.md, Guide.md, Patching.md, etc.) accessible, Python 3.13.2 via uv |
| **se-dev-game-code** | ✅Ready | Decompiled/ folder with game assemblies, Content/ folder, CodeIndex/ with CSV indexes, code search working |

### Nothing Missing or Broken

All skills have:
- `Prepare.DONE` file present (preparation completed)
- Python 3.13.2 working via `uv run`
- Required resources accessible (symlinks, documentation, indexes)
- Code search/indexing functional

---

## Credits

### Patreon Supporters

_in alphabetical order_

#### Admiral level

- BetaMark
- Casinost
- Mordith - Guardians SE
- Robot10
- wafoxxx

#### Captain level

- Diggz
- jiringgot
- Jimbo
- Kam Solastor
- lazul
- Linux123123
- Lotan
- Lurking StarCpt
- NeonDrip
- NeVaR
- opesoorry

#### Testers

- Avaness
- mkaito

### Creators

- Space - Pulsar
- avaness - Plugin Loader (legacy)
- Fred XVI - Racing maps
- Kamikaze - M&M mod
- LTP
- Mordith - Guardians SE
- Mike Dude - Guardians SE
- SwiftyTech - Stargate Dimensions

**Thank you very much for all your support!**

### Legal

Space Engineers is trademark of Keen Software House s.r.o.

Commit message:

Installer scripts
Useful if you don't have `npx` or don't want to use `npx skills`.

This is also useful if you want to further develop the skills themselves, since the skill folders from the repository are directly symlinked under the coding agent's skills folder.

README.md, after:

# Space Engineers Developer Skills

A [skill](https://agentskills.io) library for Space Engineers plugin, mod, and in-game script development.

**This library applies only to version 1 of the game.**

## How to use

You must have a "skills" compatible agentic coding environment. 
See [agentskills.io](https://agentskills.io) or [skills.sh](https://skills.sh) for details.

## Installation

`npx skills add viktor-ferenczi/se-dev-skills`

Follow the wizard.

Later you can update them by: `npx skills update`

In case you don't want to use `skills.sh`, then please see the "Manual installation" section below. 

## Preparation

The skills will automatically prepare themselves on **first use**. It means downloading some tools and indexing code.
If you want to prepare them ahead of time, simply run `Prepare.bat` in their respective folders.

**Note:** Preparing the `se-dev-game-code` skill may take 5–15 minutes, as it fully decompiles the game and builds
code indexes to allow for rapid code search later. The fully prepared repository takes about **1.5 GB** of disk space
due to the code index. If you need to save space, you can delete all `*.il` files (approx. **660 MB**), which are
only required for working on transpiler or preloader patches.

All skills install BusyBox (`busybox.exe`) into their folder for use by agentic coding tools for UNIX like commands,
because AI models are bad at Windows commands and often fall back to the UNIX CLI tools even if told otherwise. It
has improved efficiency a lot, therefore this is currently a requirement. 

If you want to use BusyBox in your other projects, then this is also available as a separate skill:
`npx skills add https://github.com/viktor-ferenczi/skills --skill busybox-on-windows`

## Skills

* [se-dev-script](https://www.google.com/search?q=skills/se-dev-script/SKILL.md) – In-game script development
* [se-dev-mod](https://www.google.com/search?q=skills/se-dev-mod/SKILL.md) – Mod development
* [se-dev-plugin](https://www.google.com/search?q=skills/se-dev-plugin/SKILL.md) – Plugin development
* [se-dev-game-code](https://www.google.com/search?q=skills/se-dev-game-code/SKILL.md) – Searchable decompiled C# game code (recommended companion for all the other skills)

_Enjoy!_

## Want to know more?

- [SE Mods Discord](https://discord.gg/PYPFPGf3Ca) FAQ, Troubleshooting, Support, Bug Reports, Discussion
- [Pulsar Discord](https://discord.gg/z8ZczP2YZY) Everything about plugins

---

## Manual installation

You can also install the skills manually:

1. Clone this repository
2. Run one of the installation scripts from the `install` folder:

| Target Environment | Script |
|-------------------|--------|
| Claude Code | `install\claude.bat` |
| Cline | `install\cline.bat` |
| OpenCode | `install\opencode.bat` |
| Custom location | `install\generic.bat <target_skills_folder>` |

The scripts create junction points (symlinks) from the target skills folder to this repository.

## FAQ

### How much of this was "vibe-coded"?

The `index_code.py` and `search_code.py` scripts were written entirely by Claude Code with zero human intervention,
other than repeated prompting and testing. The indexing logic is based on my previous work using Tree-sitter's C#
parser, originally developed for the (now defunct) *Ask Your Code* ChatGPT plugin and GPT.

### How well does this work for plugin development?

I am currently testing it myself. It looks promising, but there may be rough edges. Please try it out and report back or
submit a PR!

### Why do the mod development skills lack details about non-scripting parts?

I haven't developed many mods involving custom art or definitions, so I lack the personal experience to add those yet.
Contributions via PR are very welcome.

### Does Claude Code know about the mod and script API whitelists?

I have exported the current whitelists (as of game version 1.208.015) using [MDK2](https://github.com/malforge/mdk2).
This may need future updates or automation during the preparation phase.

If you use the suggested mod or script template projects and the **ScriptMerge** tool, there is no formal whitelist
validation during build time. It may fail when loading into the game, but if you provide the relevant game logs to
Claude Code, it can usually identify and fix the issue.

### How does Claude Code load this much information into the context?

It doesn't! Skills work on the principle of **"progressive disclosure."** Claude Code initially sees only the top-level
skill names and descriptions. It then gradually "discovers" more information as needed for the task. It has been given
specific instructions on how to search the SE codebase efficiently so it doesn't get overwhelmed.

Ideally, it performs research using sub-agents and clears irrelevant data before passing the results back to the parent
agent. Agent hierarchies are a fascinating and fast-evolving topic, definitely worth looking into!

## Troubleshooting

If you suspect something is not working in these skills, then issue the following test prompt in an empty project:

```md
Check whether you can see these skills:
- `se-dev-script`
- `se-dev-mod`
- `se-dev-plugin`
- `se-dev-game-code`

If you see them, then make sure they're prepared for first use.

Once they are prepared, conduct some smoke testing on their features to make sure they work.

If something is missing or not working properly, then list those for me.
```

## Successful self-test result

All four skills are visible and prepared for first use.

### All Skills Working

| Skill | Status | Key Features Verified |
|-------|--------|----------------------|
| **se-dev-script** | ✅Ready | Preparation complete, ModApiWhitelist.txt available, Python 3.13.2 via uv |
| **se-dev-mod** | ✅Ready | SteamMods symlink working, LocalMods symlink working, Python 3.13.2 via uv |
| **se-dev-plugin** | ✅Ready | All documentation (Plugin.md, Guide.md, Patching.md, etc.) accessible, Python 3.13.2 via uv |
| **se-dev-game-code** | ✅Ready | Decompiled/ folder with game assemblies, Content/ folder, CodeIndex/ with CSV indexes, code search working |

### Nothing Missing or Broken

All skills have:
- `Prepare.DONE` file present (preparation completed)
- Python 3.13.2 working via `uv run`
- Required resources accessible (symlinks, documentation, indexes)
- Code search/indexing functional

---

## Credits

### Patreon Supporters

_in alphabetical order_

#### Admiral level

- BetaMark
- Casinost
- Mordith - Guardians SE
- Robot10
- wafoxxx

#### Captain level

- Diggz
- jiringgot
- Jimbo
- Kam Solastor
- lazul
- Linux123123
- Lotan
- Lurking StarCpt
- NeonDrip
- NeVaR
- opesoorry

#### Testers

- Avaness
- mkaito

### Creators

- Space - Pulsar
- avaness - Plugin Loader (legacy)
- Fred XVI - Racing maps
- Kamikaze - M&M mod
- LTP
- Mordith - Guardians SE
- Mike Dude - Guardians SE
- SwiftyTech - Stargate Dimensions

**Thank you very much for all your support!**

### Legal

Space Engineers is trademark of Keen Software House s.r.o.
